docs: describe the functional flow of a deployment (#828)
keptn/lifecycle-toolkit: docs/content/en/docs/concepts/architecture/deployment-flow.md

---
title: Flow of deployment
linktitle: Flow of deployment
description: Understand the execution flow of a deployment
weight: 25
---

A deployment is started by the following command:

```bash
kubectl apply -f deployment.yaml
```

This executes a series of
Kubernetes [events](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/cluster-resources/event-v1/).
Events are resources such as Deployments or Pods.

A user can view these events by executing:

```bash
kubectl get events -n <namespace> . 
```

The `kubectl apply` occurs at beginning of the deployment
but the created pods are blocked and in pending state
until all the required pre-deployment tasks/evaluation
defined on either the KeptnApp or Workload level pass.
Only then are the pods bound to a node and deployed.

> The Keptn Lifecycle Toolkit has its own custom
> [scheduler](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/kube-scheduler/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Keptn Lifecycle Toolkit implement a [Permit Scheduler Plugin](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/scheduling-framework/#permit)
```

---
title: Flow of deployment
linktitle: Flow of deployment
description: Understand the execution flow of a deployment
weight: 25
---

The Keptn Lifecycle Toolkit (KLT) deploys a
[Kubernetes Workload](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/)
by passing through a well-defined execution flow.
The execution flow goes through six main phases:
pre-deployments-tasks, pre-deployment-evaluation, deployment,

> post-deployments-tasks, post-deployment-evaluation, completed.

Author: done

> post-deployments-tasks, post-deployment-evaluation, completed.

Author: done

> post-deployments-tasks, post-deployment-evaluation, completed.

Author: done

A [Kubernetes Event](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/cluster-resources/event-v1/)
is emitted at each phase to provide additional Observability of the execution flow.

The Keptn Lifecycle Toolkit implements a
[Permit Scheduler Plugin](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/scheduling-framework/#permit)
that blocks the creation of the pods until all the pre-conditions are fulfilled.

A Kubernetes deployment is started by the following command:

```bash
kubectl apply -f deployment.yaml
```

The `kubectl apply` occurs at the beginning of the deployment
but the created pods are blocked and in pending state
until all the required pre-deployment tasks/evaluation

> defined on either the KeptnApp or Workload level pass.

Author: Fixed

and terminates the deployment.

```bash
AppDeploy
  AppDeployStarted
  WorkloadPreDeployTasks
    WorkloadPreDeployTasksStarted
    WorkloadPreDeployTasksSucceeded OR WorkloadPreDeployTasksErrored 
  WorkloadPreDeployEvaluations
    WorkloadPreDeployEvaluationsStarted
    WorkloadPreDeployEvaluationsSucceeded OR WorkloadPreDeployErrored
  WorkloadDeploy
    WorkloadDeployStarted
    WorkloadDeploySucceeded OR WorkloadDeployErrored
```

### Post-deployment phase

```bash
  WorkloadPostDeployTasks
    WorkloadPostDeployTasksStarted
    WorkloadPostDeployTasksSucceeded OR WorkloadPostDeployTasksErrored
  WorkloadPostDeployEvaluations
    WorkloadPostDeployEvaluationsStarted
    WorkloadPostDeployEvaluationsSucceeded OR WorkloadPostDeployEvaluationsErrored
AppDeploy
  AppDeploySucceeded OR AppDeployErrored
  
### Post-deployment evaluation phase

```bash
AppPostDeployTasks
  AppPostDeployTasksStarted
  AppPostDeployTasksSucceeded OR AppPostDeployTasksErrored
```

```bash
AppPostDeployEvaluations
  AppPostDeployEvaluationsStarted
  AppPostDeployEvaluationsSucceeded OR AppPostDeployEvaluationsErrored
```
### Completed phase

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

---
title: Flow of deployment
linktitle: Flow of deployment
description: Understand the execution flow of a deployment
weight: 25
---

The Keptn Lifecycle Toolkit (KLT) deploys a
[Kubernetes Workload](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/)
by passing through a well-defined execution flow.

The execution flow goes through six main phases:

* Pre-deployments-tasks
* Pre-deployment-evaluation
* Deployment
* Post-deployment-tasks
* Post-deployment-evaluation
* Completed

A [Kubernetes Event](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/cluster-resources/event-v1/)
is emitted at each phase to provide additional Observability of the execution flow.

The Keptn Lifecycle Toolkit implements a
[Permit Scheduler Plugin](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/scheduling-framework/#permit)

> that blocks the creation of the pods until all the pre-conditions are fulfilled.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
that blocks the binding of the pods to a node until all the pre-conditions are fulfilled.
```

A Kubernetes deployment is started by the following command:

```shell
kubectl apply -f deployment.yaml
```

> The `kubectl apply` occurs at the beginning of the deployment

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The deployment is created
```

but the created pods are blocked and in pending state
until all the required pre-deployment tasks/evaluations
defined on either the KeptnApp or KeptnWorkload level pass.
Only then are the pods bound to a node and deployed.

## Summary of deployment flow

To view these events on your cluster, execute:

```shell
kubectl get events -n <namespace> . 
```

### Pre-deployment phase

```shell
AppPreDeployTasks
  AppPreDeployTasksStarted
  AppPreDeployTasksSucceeded OR AppPreDeployTasksErrored
```

### Pre-deployment evaluation phase

```shell
AppPreDeployEvaluations
  AppPreDeployEvaluationsStarted
  AppPreDeployEvaluationsSucceeded OR AppPreDeployEvaluationsErrored
```

### Deployment phase

The `AppDeploy` phase basically covers
the entire deployment and check phase of the workloads.
The `KeptnApp` just observes whether
all pre and post-deployment tasks/evaluation are successful
and that the pods are deployed successfully.
When all activities are successful,

> the KeptnApp issues the `AppPostDeployEvaluationsSucceeded` event

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the KeptnApp issues the `AppDeploySucceeded` event
```

and continues to the next phase.
If any of these activities fail,
the KeptnApp issues the `AppPostDeployEvaluationsErrored` event
and terminates the deployment.

```shell
AppDeploy
  AppDeployStarted
  WorkloadPreDeployTasks
    WorkloadPreDeployTasksStarted
    WorkloadPreDeployTasksSucceeded OR WorkloadPreDeployTasksErrored 
  WorkloadPreDeployEvaluations
    WorkloadPreDeployEvaluationsStarted
    WorkloadPreDeployEvaluationsSucceeded OR WorkloadPreDeployErrored
  WorkloadDeploy
    WorkloadDeployStarted
    WorkloadDeploySucceeded OR WorkloadDeployErrored
```

> ### Post-deployment phase

Reviewer 2: We are missing Post-deployment evaluation phase here, basically the section in the same manner like the `pre-deployment phase` and `pre-deployment evaluation phase` are

```shell
  WorkloadPostDeployTasks
    WorkloadPostDeployTasksStarted
    WorkloadPostDeployTasksSucceeded OR WorkloadPostDeployTasksErrored

>   WorkloadPostDeployEvaluations

Reviewer 2: This should be in a separate section

Author: Again, not exactly sure what to do -- it looks to me like they are in a separate section.  Can you github-suggest how to fix?

>     WorkloadPostDeployTasks
>         WorkloadPostDeployTasksStarted
>         WorkloadPostDeployTasksSucceeded OR WorkloadPostDeployTasksErrored 
>     WorkloadPostDeployEvaluations
>         WorkloadPostDeployEvaluationsStarted
>         WorkloadPostDeployEvaluationsSucceeded OR WorkloadPostDeployEvaluationsErrored
>     AppDeploySucceeded OR AppDeployErrored

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  WorkloadPostDeployTasks
      WorkloadPostDeployTasksStarted
      WorkloadPostDeployTasksSucceeded OR WorkloadPostDeployTasksErrored 
  WorkloadPostDeployEvaluations
      WorkloadPostDeployEvaluationsStarted
      WorkloadPostDeployEvaluationsSucceeded OR WorkloadPostDeployEvaluationsErrored
  AppDeploySucceeded OR AppDeployErrored
```

Reviewer 2: at the end of this paragraph, you are missing an ending of the code block

> ### Post-deployment phase

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
### Post-deployment phase
```

    WorkloadPostDeployEvaluationsStarted
    WorkloadPostDeployEvaluationsSucceeded OR WorkloadPostDeployEvaluationsErrored

> AppDeploy

Reviewer 2: This should be completed, not appdeploy

Author: Wonderful!  This is moved and it also resolves one of Giovanni's comments!

  AppDeploySucceeded OR AppDeployErrored

>   

Reviewer: Here there are three backticks missing

```
  
### Post-deployment evaluation phase

```shell
AppPostDeployEvaluations
  AppPostDeployEvaluationsStarted
  AppPostDeployEvaluationsSucceeded OR AppPostDeployEvaluationsErrored
```

### Completed phase

```shell

>   Completed

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Completed
```

> ### Completed phase

Reviewer: should we remove this header since its content is empty?

Author: We've listed it as a phase at the beginning so we need to have some content but maybe in the next pass?

Author: Better yet!  Ondrej identified the lines that belong in this section so it is no longer empty!

  AppPreDeployTasksStarted
  AppPreDeployTasksSucceeded OR AppPreDeployTasksErrored
```

### Pre-deployment evaluation phase

```shell
AppPreDeployEvaluations
  AppPreDeployEvaluationsStarted
  AppPreDeployEvaluationsSucceeded OR AppPreDeployEvaluationsErrored
```

### Deployment phase

The `AppDeploy` phase basically covers
the entire deployment and check phase of the workloads.
The `KeptnApp` just observes whether
all pre and post-deployment tasks/evaluation are successful
and that the pods are deployed successfully.
When all activities are successful,
the KeptnApp issues the `AppDeploySucceeded` event
and continues to the next phase.
If any of these activities fail,
the KeptnApp issues the `AppDeployErrored` event
and terminates the deployment.

```shell
AppDeploy
  AppDeployStarted
  WorkloadPreDeployTasks
    WorkloadPreDeployTasksStarted
    WorkloadPreDeployTasksSucceeded OR WorkloadPreDeployTasksErrored 
  WorkloadPreDeployEvaluations
    WorkloadPreDeployEvaluationsStarted
    WorkloadPreDeployEvaluationsSucceeded OR WorkloadPreDeployErrored
  WorkloadDeploy
    WorkloadDeployStarted
    WorkloadDeploySucceeded OR WorkloadDeployErrored
  WorkloadPostDeployTasks

>       WorkloadPostDeployTasksStarted
>       WorkloadPostDeployTasksSucceeded OR WorkloadPostDeployTasksErrored 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    WorkloadPostDeployTasksStarted
    WorkloadPostDeployTasksSucceeded OR WorkloadPostDeployTasksErrored 
```

  WorkloadPostDeployEvaluations

>       WorkloadPostDeployEvaluationsStarted
>       WorkloadPostDeployEvaluationsSucceeded OR WorkloadPostDeployEvaluationsErrored

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    WorkloadPostDeployEvaluationsStarted
    WorkloadPostDeployEvaluationsSucceeded OR WorkloadPostDeployEvaluationsErrored
```

  AppDeploySucceeded OR AppDeployErrored
  ```

### Post-deployment phase

```shell
AppPostDeployTasks

>     AppPostDeployTasksStarted
>     AppPostDeployTasksSucceeded OR AppPostDeployTasksErrored

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  AppPostDeployTasksStarted
  AppPostDeployTasksSucceeded OR AppPostDeployTasksErrored
```

```
  
### Post-deployment evaluation phase

```shell
AppPostDeployEvaluations
  AppPostDeployEvaluationsStarted
  AppPostDeployEvaluationsSucceeded OR AppPostDeployEvaluationsErrored
```

### Completed phase

```shell
Completed
```

## Events that are not part of the deployment flow

Additional phases/states exist,
such as those that describe what happens when something fails.

Whenever something in the system happens (we create a new resource, etc.)
a Kubernetes event is generated.
The following events are defined as part of the Keptn Lifecycle Toolkit
but they are not part of the deployment flow.
These include:

```shell
CreateEvaluation
ReconcileEvaluation
ReconcileTask
CreateTask
CreateApp
CreateAppVersion
CreateWorkload
CreateWorkloadInstance
Completed
Deprecated
WorkloadDeployReconcile

>   WorkloadDeployReconcileErrored

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
WorkloadDeployReconcileErrored
```

---
title: Flow of deployment
linktitle: Flow of deployment
description: Understand the execution flow of a deployment
weight: 25
---

> The Keptn Lifecycle Toolkit deploys a Keptn application
> ([KeptnApp](../../yaml-crd-ref.md) or a
> [Kubernetes Workload](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/)
> by executing a series of Kubernetes
> [events](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/cluster-resources/event-v1/).
> which are resources such as Deployments or Pods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Keptn Lifecycle Toolkit (KLT) deploys a
[Kubernetes Workload](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/)
by passing through a well-defined execution flow.
```

The execution flow goes through six main phases:
pre-deployments-tasks, pre-deployment-evaluation, deployment,

> post-deployments-tasks, post-deployment-evaluation, completed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
post-deployments-tasks, post-deployment-evaluation, completed.
A [Kubernetes Event](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/cluster-resources/event-v1/) is at each phase emitted to provide additional Observability of the execution flow. 
```

The KLT permit scheduler blocks the creation of the pods until all the pre-conditions are fulfilled.
6 main phases (pre-deployments-tasks, pre-deployment-evaluation, deployment,
post-deployments-tasks, post-deployment-evaluation, completed.

A Kubernetes deployment is started by the following command:

```bash
kubectl apply -f deployment.yaml
```

> This begins a deployment of a workload by triggering the kubernetes pod scheduler.
> During this process, events are omitted.
> 
> The Keptn Lifecycle Toolkit implements a
> [Permit Scheduler Plugin](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/scheduling-framework/#permit)
> that executes a series of Kubernetes
> [events](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/cluster-resources/event-v1/)
> which are resources such as Deployments or Pods.
> The KLT permit scheduler blocks the creation of the pods until all the pre-conditions are fulfilled.

Reviewer: This looks like a left over
```suggestion
```

```shell
AppPreDeployTasks
  AppPreDeployTasksStarted
  AppPreDeployTasksSucceeded OR AppPreDeployTasksErrored
```

### Pre-deployment evaluation phase

```shell
AppPreDeployEvaluations
  AppPreDeployEvaluationsStarted
  AppPreDeployEvaluationsSucceeded OR AppPreDeployEvaluationsErrored
```

### Deployment phase

The `AppDeploy` phase basically covers
the entire deployment and check phase of the workloads.
The `KeptnApp` just observes whether
all pre and post-deployment tasks/evaluation are successful
and that the pods are deployed successfully.
When all activities are successful,
the KeptnApp issues the `AppDeploySucceeded` event
and continues to the next phase.
If any of these activities fail,
the KeptnApp issues the `AppDeployErrored` event
and terminates the deployment.

```shell
AppDeploy
  AppDeployStarted
  WorkloadPreDeployTasks
    WorkloadPreDeployTasksStarted
    WorkloadPreDeployTasksSucceeded OR WorkloadPreDeployTasksErrored 
  WorkloadPreDeployEvaluations
    WorkloadPreDeployEvaluationsStarted
    WorkloadPreDeployEvaluationsSucceeded OR WorkloadPreDeployErrored
  WorkloadDeploy
    WorkloadDeployStarted
    WorkloadDeploySucceeded OR WorkloadDeployErrored

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
WorkloadPostDeployTasks
    WorkloadPostDeployTasksStarted
    WorkloadPostDeployTasksSucceeded OR WorkloadPostDeployTasksErrored 
WorkloadPostDeployEvaluations
    WorkloadPostDeployEvaluationsStarted
    WorkloadPostDeployEvaluationsSucceeded OR WorkloadPostDeployEvaluationsErrored
```
```

### Post-deployment phase

```shell

>   WorkloadPostDeployTasks
>     WorkloadPostDeployTasksStarted
>     WorkloadPostDeployTasksSucceeded OR WorkloadPostDeployTasksErrored

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  AppPostDeployTasks
      AppPostDeployTasksStarted
      AppPostDeployTasksSucceeded OR AppPostDeployTasksErrored
```

```
  
### Post-deployment evaluation phase

> 
> ```shell
> AppPostDeployTasks
>   AppPostDeployTasksStarted
>   AppPostDeployTasksSucceeded OR AppPostDeployTasksErrored
> ```
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

```
